Initial example (#1)
Macrometacorp/macrometa-graph-example: README.md

# ✨ Macrometa Graph Example with JavaScript SDK ✨

This example demonstrates the ability of graph databases in analyzing and
offering recommendations for items that are commonly purchased together. By
establishing connections between customer and item vertices using edge
collections, the graph is able to seamlessly and accurately deliver tailored
recommendations to customers who have bought a particular item.

![graph-image](/images/graph-image.png)

> Customers Dino and Durga bought the same items. We are able to traverse the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers Dino and Durga bought the same items. We can traverse the
```

graph and recommend items to Dallas based on the items that Dino and
Durga bought. This is a simple example of how graph databases can be used to
offer recommendations to customers.

## ❓ How to use this demo

You can use this demo to understand how to use Macrometa SDK to create graph
database and perform operations on it. In the sample data folder, you will find
sample data that you can use to import in Macrometa GDN. We suggest that you
follow the steps explained in [Graph data setup](#graph-data-setup) section to import data and

> create a graph. After that,  you can interact with the graph using the scripts in `create`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create a graph. After that, you can interact with the graph using the scripts in the `create`,
```

`read`, `update`, and `delete` folders. (CRUD operations on graph)

## 🚀 Run It Locally

> In this tutorial, we will walk you through the process of setting up a local instance of a Macrometa graph example project. By following this step-by-step guide, you will learn how to create an account, set up your environment, import sample data and queries, and interact with the Macrometa Global Data Network (GDN) using JavaScript SDK. Additionally, we will demonstrate how to add new vertices and edges to the graph. Let's get started by setting up the prerequisites and initial environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will walk you through the process of setting up a local instance of a Macrometa graph example project. By following this step-by-step guide, you will learn how to set up your environment, import sample data and queries, and interact with the Macrometa Global Data Network (GDN) using the JavaScript SDK. Additionally, we will demonstrate how to add new vertices and edges to the graph. Let's get started by setting up the prerequisites and initial environment.
```

### Prerequisites

- Log in to your [Macrometa account](https://auth-play.macrometa.io/)
- You need **Node.js 14 (or later)** installed in your system. Run
   the following command in your CLI to check your Node.js version.

```
node -v
```

### Initial Setup

In this paragraph, we will explain how to clone this repository and set up environment variables.

1. Open a terminal window and run the command below to clone this repository. You can run:

```
git clone https://github.com/Macrometacorp/macrometa-graph-example.git
```

or

```
git clone git@github.com:Macrometacorp/macrometa-graph-example.git
```

depending on your GitHub authentication method.

2. Create a new `.env` file and add your environment variables on your selected
   path.  
   Here is how a `.env` file should look:

```
BASE_URL=https://play.paas.macrometa.io/
API_KEY=<your-api-key>
FABRIC=<your-fabric-name> (default: _system)
```

**Note**: `.env.sample` is only a sample file that you can also use as a guide to create your own `.env`.

3. Install the project dependencies with:

```
npm install
```

### Graph Data Setup

> 1. Create two document collections in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create two document collections in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa console. For instructions, refer to [Create a Document Store](https://www.macrometa.com/docs/collections/documents/create-document-store).
```

   - `groceryItems`
   - `groceryCustomers`

> 2. Create one edge collection in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create one edge collection in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa console. For instructions, refer to [Create a Graph Edge Collection](https://www.macrometa.com/docs/graphs/graph-tasks/create-graph-edge-collection).
```

   - `groceryOrders`

> 3. Import test data from `sample-data` folder in Macrometa GDN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Import test data from the `sample-data` folder in Macrometa GDN. For instructions, refer to [Add Documents from a File](https://www.macrometa.com/docs/collections/documents/add-document#add-documents-from-a-file).
```

> 4. Import `sample-data/import-query.json` in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa

Reviewer: For instructions, refer to [Import Query Workers](https://www.macrometa.com/docs/queryworkers/query-workers#import-query-workers).

   console.

Example how to import data in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa console:
![Create Collection](/images/create-collection.png)

![Import Data](/images/import-data.png)

Example how to import query in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa console:

![Import Query](/images/import-query-1.png)

![Import Query](/images/import-query-2.png)

### Create Graph and Run Queries with JavaScript SDK

> You can run the following scripts in terminal or in your preferred IDE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following scripts in the terminal or in your preferred IDE.
```

        COLLECT i=item.name WITH COUNT INTO c
        FILTER i != @name
        SORT c DESC
        // LIMIT 2
        RETURN {"item": i, "count": c}   // item -> number of users who purchased it
                                         // count -> number of times it was purchased
```

@name is a bind variable that can be set to any item name. In this example we
have set it to `peanut butter`. First we are filtering by item name and then
collecting all the users who purchased that item. Then we are collecting all the
items that were purchased by those users. We are filtering out the item that we
are looking (`peanut butter`) for and sorting the result by the number of times
it was purchased.

### Result

If bind variable `@name` is set to `peanut butter` then result will be:

```
[
  { item: 'jelly', count: 2 },
  { item: 'napkins', count: 2 },
  { item: 'strawberry', count: 2 },
  { item: 'banana', count: 1 },
  { item: 'milk', count: 1 },
  { item: 'celery', count: 1 },
  { item: 'bread', count: 1 },
  { item: 'white claw', count: 1 },
  { item: 'kiwi', count: 1 },
  { item: 'ketchup', count: 1 },
  { item: 'apple', count: 1 }
]
```

> First recommendation according to this query is `jelly` which is purchased by 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first recommendation according to this query is `jelly`, which is purchased by two
```

> users. Second recommendation is `napkins` which is purchased by 2 users. Third

Reviewer: ```suggestion
users. The second recommendation is `napkins`, which is purchased by two users. The third
```

> recommendation is `strawberry` which is purchased by 2 users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recommendation is `strawberry`, which is purchased by two users.
```

This example demonstrates the ability of graph databases in analyzing and
offering recommendations for items that are commonly purchased together. By
establishing connections between customer and item vertices using edge
collections, the graph is able to seamlessly and accurately deliver tailored
recommendations to customers who have bought a particular item.

![graph-image](/images/graph-image.png)

Customers Dino and Durga bought the same items. We are able to traverse the
graph and recommend items to Dallas based on the items that Dino and
Durga bought. This is a simple example of how graph databases can be used to
offer recommendations to customers.

## ❓ How to use this demo

You can use this demo to understand how to use Macrometa SDK to create graph
database and perform operations on it. In the sample data folder, you will find
sample data that you can use to import in Macrometa GDN. We suggest that you
follow the steps explained in [Graph data setup](#graph-data-setup) section to import data and
create a graph. After that,  you can interact with the graph using the scripts in `create`,
`read`, `update`, and `delete` folders. (CRUD operations on graph)

> ## 🚀 Run It Locally

Reviewer: Need an intro paragraph here, too

Author: 👍

### Prerequisites

> - Create a free [Macrometa account](https://auth-play.macrometa.io/sign-up)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Log in to your [Macrometa account](https://auth-play.macrometa.io/)
```

- You need **Node.js 14 (or later)** installed in your system. Run
   the following command in your CLI to check your Node.js version.

```
node -v
```

### Initial Setup

In this paragraph, we will explain how to clone this repository and set up environment variables.

> 1. Open a terminal window and run the command below to clone this repository. You can do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a terminal window and run the command below to clone this repository. You can run:
```

```
git clone https://github.com/Macrometacorp/macrometa-graph-example.git
```

or

```
git clone git@github.com:Macrometacorp/macrometa-graph-example.git
```

depending on your GitHub authentication method.

2. Create a new `.env` file and add your environment variables on your selected
   path.  

>    Here is how `.env` file should look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Here is how a `.env` file should look:
```

# ✨ Macrometa Graph Example with JavaScript SDK ✨

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## 👀 Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This example demonstrates the ability of graph databases in analyzing and
offering recommendations for items that are commonly purchased together. By
establishing connections between customer and item vertices using edge
collections, the graph is able to seamlessly and accurately deliver tailored
recommendations to customers who have bought a particular item.

![graph-image](/images/graph-image.png)

> In the graph that we created customers Dino and Durga bought the same items. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the graph that we created, customers Dino and Durga bought the same items. The
```

> graph is able to recommend items to Dallas based on the items that Dino and

Reviewer: This sounds odd to me. The graph isn't recommending anything. You can traverse the graph to find these collections.

Author: Yes! Correct, thanks 🙏

Durga bought. This is a simple example of how graph databases can be used to
offer recommendations to customers.

## ❓ How to use this demo

You can use this demo to understand how to use Macrometa SDK to create graph

> database and perform operations on it. In sample data folder you will find

Reviewer: ```suggestion
database and perform operations on it. In the sample data folder, you will find
```

sample data that you can use to import in Macrometa GDN. We suggest that you

> follow steps explained in [Graph data setup](#graph-data-setup) section to import data and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
follow the steps explained in [Graph data setup](#graph-data-setup) section to import data and
```

> create graph. After that you can interact with graph using scripts in `create`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create a graph. After that,  you can interact with the graph using the scripts in `create`,
```

> `read`, `update` and `delete` folders. (CRUD operations on graph)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`read`, `update`, and `delete` folders. (CRUD operations on graph)
```

> ## 🚀 Run it Locally

Reviewer: Avoid stacked headings. Add a short paragraph between the two headings explaining what "run it locally" means and what this section is about.

Reviewer: For example, I do not know what we are running locally here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 🚀 Run It Locally
```

### Prerequisites

> 1. Create a free [Macrometa account](https://auth-play.macrometa.io/sign-up)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a free [Macrometa account](https://auth-play.macrometa.io/sign-up)
```

Reviewer: Does it have to be a free Macrometa account? I suggest telling them to log in to their Macrometa account.

> 2. You will have to have **Node.js 14 (or later)** installed in your system. Run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need **Node.js 14 (or later)** installed in your system. Run
```

   the following command in your CLI to check your Node.js version.

```
node -v
```

> ### Initial setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Initial Setup
```

> 

Reviewer: Add an intro paragraph providing context for this section. Tell the users what they will be doing.

Author: 👍

Reviewer: Good intro. In technical documentation, generally we're writing to "you", not "we." In a tutorial like this, you have more leeway, because you're guiding the user through a process. Still, try to keep "we" to a minimum. It can lead to confusion.

> 1. Open a CLI and run the command below to clone this repository. You can do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a terminal window and run the command below to clone this repository. You can do:
```

```

> git clone https://github.com/Macrometacorp/macrometa-graph-example.git

Reviewer: Does this command work the same for all operating systems? Worth checking.

```

or

```
git clone git@github.com:Macrometacorp/macrometa-graph-example.git
```

depending on your GitHub authentication method.

2. Create a new `.env` file and add your environment variables on your selected
   path.  
   Here is how `.env` file should look like:

```
BASE_URL=https://play.paas.macrometa.io/
API_KEY=<your-api-key>
FABRIC=<your-fabric-name> (default: _system)
```

> **Note**: `.env.sample` is only a sample file that you can also use as a guide.

Reviewer: This confuses me. Does that mean I don't need the file?

Author: Added to notes

3. Install the project dependencies with:

```
npm install
```

> ### Graph data setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Graph Data Setup
```

Reviewer: Add an intro paragraph providing context for this section. Tell the users what they will be doing.

> 1. Create two document collections in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa console.

Reviewer: Link to instructions for creating a document collection.

   - `groceryItems`
   - `groceryCustomers`

2. Create one edge collection in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa console.

>    - `groceryOrders`

Reviewer: Do not use a bulleted list if there is only one item. Also, link to instructions for creating an edge collection.

> 3. Import test data from `sample-data` folder in Macrometa GDN.

Reviewer: How do they do this? If you mean import the records into a collection, then there are instructions in the docs.

Author: We have an image that explains that below the text. Example of how to do it.

> 4. Import `sample-data/import-query.json` in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa

Reviewer: Again, how?

Author: We have an image that explains that below the text. Example of how to do it.

   console.

Example how to import data in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa console:
![Create Collection](/images/create-collection.png)

![Import Data](/images/import-data.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Example how to import query in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa console:

Reviewer: Since you had them using the CLI before, maybe you should also have them use the CLI for this? The instructions in the documentation provide multiple methods to do these tasks.

Author: That is a good point, but the drawback is that users need to install CLI and do some settings to begin with. It could be more straightforward forward to use console import. For just a test, perhaps it is easier. I just wanted to let you know that it is up for discussion.

![Import Query](/images/import-query-1.png)

![Import Query](/images/import-query-2.png)

> ### Create graph and run queries with JavaScript SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create Graph and Run Queries with JavaScript SDK
```

Reviewer: I am super confused now. You started with me running commands in the terminal, then doing stuff in a couple screens in the console, and now the SDK? I suggest simplifying this. Users do not really need to be in the web console for this, do they? Not unless they want to actually look at the generated graph.

You can run the following scripts in terminal or in your preferred IDE.

> Example how to run scripts in terminal (please make sure that you are in root):

Reviewer: This example is confusing. This format is what you should use for the commands in the next little bit.

```bash
node create/create-graph.js
```

```bash
node graph-query.js
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> **Note**: Please make sure that you have created graph and imported data in and run commands in order.
> First we need to create a graph than query the graph, otherwise you will get error.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra empty lines in all cases. There should only ever be one.

1. Run `create/create-graph.js` to create graph in Macrometa GDN.

>     - This script will create a graph with name `grocery-graph` and add two

Reviewer: Put the explanation first, then tell them what to do. Something like.

Create a graph with name....

In your terminal, run the following command:

```
command to copy/paste
```

      vertex collections (`groceryItems` and `groceryCustomers`) and one edge
      collection (`groceryOrders`) to it.

2. Run `graph-query.js` to run graph query and get recommendations.
    - This script will run a graph query to get recommendations for item
      `peanut butter`. You can change the item name in the script to get
      recommendations for other items.

> ### Add additional data (New vertex and edge)

Reviewer: Rewrite all headings in title case. Also, remove the parenthesis.

> > **Note**: Please make sure that you are running commands in order.

Reviewer: This is an unnecessary instruction. You have numbered steps, that tells the reader they should be done in a given order.

I suggest replacing this with an intro paragraph explaining to the reader what they're going to do in this section.

Author: 👍

1. Run `create/create-vertex.js` to add new vertex in Macrometa GDN.
    - This script will add a one new vertex in `groceryCustomers` and `groceryItems` collection.
    - Example data in `groceryCustomers`: `{_key: "C16", name: "John Harris"}`
    - Example data in `groceryItems`: `{_key: "P21", name: "Avocado"}`

2. Run `create/create-edge.js` to add new edge in Macrometa GDN.
    - This script will add a one new edge in `groceryOrders` collection.
    - Example data in `groceryOrders`: `{_key: "4117657859", _from: "groceryCustomers/C16", _to: "groceryItems/P21"}`

> **Note**: If you run this scripts multiple times you will get and error. This is because we are using same vertex and edge name. 
You can change the name of vertex and edge in the script to avoid this error and add new data to graph.
To run this code without an error you need to delete the vertex and edge from graph first. (If using same name)

> ## ❓ Query explanation

Reviewer: This heading does not make sense. We need a better title here, followed by an explanation of what is going on in this topic.

LET doc = (FOR d in groceryItems FILTER d.name == @name RETURN d)[0]
FOR user IN 1..1 INBOUND doc groceryOrders
    FOR item IN 1..1 OUTBOUND user groceryOrders
        COLLECT i=item.name WITH COUNT INTO c
        FILTER i != @name
        SORT c DESC
        // LIMIT 2
        RETURN {"item": i, "count": c}   // item -> number of users who purchased it
                                         // count -> number of times it was purchased
```

### Result

If bind variable `@name` is set to `peanut butter` then result will be:

```
[
  { item: 'jelly', count: 2 },
  { item: 'napkins', count: 2 },
  { item: 'strawberry', count: 2 },
  { item: 'banana', count: 1 },
  { item: 'milk', count: 1 },
  { item: 'celery', count: 1 },
  { item: 'bread', count: 1 },
  { item: 'white claw', count: 1 },
  { item: 'kiwi', count: 1 },
  { item: 'ketchup', count: 1 },
  { item: 'apple', count: 1 }
]
```

First recommendation according to this query is `jelly` which is purchased by 2
users. Second recommendation is `napkins` which is purchased by 2 users. Third
recommendation is `strawberry` which is purchased by 2 users.

> ## Dataset

Reviewer: What is going on here???

Author: Cnaged the title to make it clear, it is good practice to show developers what kind of test data they are using in the example.
